# Quant-StockPredictor

This project performs financial forecasting and portfolio analysis using quantitative stock price indicators. 


## Details

In this project, both rule-based and Machine Learning based (ML-based) techniques are used to generate daily buy and sell orders for IBM stock. The period from 2006-2009 is used for training the models and the 2010 year is used for testing. 

Details of the implementation can be found in the paper ('paper.pdf'). 

The purposes of each function are listed below.

- indicators.py: calculates the indicators described in part 1 of the paper and returns a Pandas Dataframe

- rule_based.py: uses the indicators Dataframe generated by indicators.py as input and produces an orders file, graphs the result, and returns back the normalized portfolio/benchmark values as a Pandas Dataframe. 

- ML_based.py: performs similarly to rule_based.py, but uses an ML-based strategy instead.

- helpers.py: contains helper functions used to execute the stock order strategies.

- testStrategy.py: a simple way to demo the code.

- RTLearner.py: a PERT Random Tree Learner implementation (Cutler). 

- BagLearner.py: an implementation of a Bag Learner used to aggregate Random Tree results.

- util.py: contains code used to load the stock data.


## Execution

The code can be run using 

~~~
	python testStrategy.py
~~~

which will produce a graph that demonstrates both rule-based and ML-based strategies. 

Alternatively, the two strategies can be tested individually using

~~~
	python rule_based.py
~~~

and

~~~ 
	python ML_based.py
~~~